chore(docs): adding aws x-ray documentation for configuration and recipes (#2110)
kubeshop/tracetest: docs/docs/examples-tutorials/recipes/running-tracetest-with-aws-x-ray-adot.md

[AWS X-Ray](https://aws.amazon.com/xray/) provides a complete view of requests as they travel through your application and filters visual data across payloads, functions, traces, services, APIs, and more with no-code and low-code motions.

[AWS Distro for OpenTelemetry (ADOT)](https://aws-otel.github.io/docs/getting-started/collector) is a secure, production-ready, AWS-supported distribution of the OpenTelemetry project. Part of the Cloud Native Computing Foundation, OpenTelemetry provides open source APIs, libraries, and agents to collect distributed traces and metrics for application monitoring.

## Simple Node.js API with AWS X-Ray and Tracetest

This is a simple quick start on how to configure a Node.js app to use instrumentation with traces and Tracetest for enhancing your E2E and integration tests with trace-based testing. The infrastructure will use AWS X-Ray as the trace data store, the ADOT as a middleware and a Node.js app to generate the telemetry data.

## Prerequisites

You will need [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) installed on your machine to run this quick start app!

## Project Structure

> The project is built with Docker Compose. It contains two distinct `docker-compose.yaml` files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The project is built with Docker Compose.
```

> ### 1. Node.js app

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 1. Node.js App
```

> The `Dockerfile` in the root directory are for the Node.js app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Dockerfile` in the root directory is for the Node.js app.
```

### 2. Tracetest

The `docker-compose.yaml` file, `tracetest.provision.yaml`, and `tracetest-config.yaml` in the `root` directory are for the setting up the Node.js App, Tracetest and ADOT Collector.

### Docker Compose Network

> All `services` in the `docker-compose.yaml` are on the same network and will be reachable by hostname from within other services. E.g. `adot-collector:2000` in the `src/index.js` will map to the `adot-collector` service, where the port `2000` is the port where the X-Ray Daemon accepts telemetry data

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All `services` in the `docker-compose.yaml` are on the same network and will be reachable by hostname from within other services. E.g. `adot-collector:2000` in the `src/index.js` will map to the `adot-collector` service, where the port `2000` is the port where the X-Ray Daemon accepts telemetry data.
```

> ## Node.js app

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Node.js App
```

The Node.js app is a simple Express app, contained in the `src/index.js` file.

> It is instrumented using [AWS X-Ray SDK](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/xray/latest/devguide/xray-sdk-nodejs.html) sending the data to the ADOT collector that will be pushing the telemetry information to both the AWS service and the Tracetest otlp endpoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is instrumented using [AWS X-Ray SDK](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/xray/latest/devguide/xray-sdk-nodejs.html), sending the data to the ADOT collector that will push the telemetry information to both the AWS service and the Tracetest OLTP endpoint.
```

The key instrumentation section from the `src/index.js` file.

```js
const AWSXRay = require("aws-xray-sdk");
const XRayExpress = AWSXRay.express;
const express = require("express");

AWSXRay.setDaemonAddress("adot-collector:2000");

// Capture all AWS clients we create
const AWS = AWSXRay.captureAWS(require("aws-sdk"));
AWS.config.update({
  region: process.env.AWS_REGION || "us-west-2",
});

// Capture all outgoing https requests
AWSXRay.captureHTTPsGlobal(require("https"));
const https = require("https");

const app = express();
const port = 3000;

app.use(XRayExpress.openSegment("Tracetest"));
```

> To start the server you run this command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To start the server run this command.
```

```bash
npm start
```

As you can see the `Dockerfile` uses the command above.

```Dockerfile
FROM node:slim
WORKDIR /usr/src/app

COPY ./src/package*.json ./

RUN npm install
COPY ./src .

EXPOSE 3000
CMD [ "npm", "start" ]
```

## Tracetest

> The `docker-compose.yaml`  includes three other services.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `docker-compose.yaml` includes three other services.
```

  port: 5432
  dbname: postgres
  params: sslmode=disable

poolingConfig:
  maxWaitTimeForTrace: 10m
  retryDelay: 5s

googleAnalytics:
  enabled: true
```

The `tracetest.provision.yaml` file defines the trace data store, set to the Otel Collector, meaning the traces will be sent to the ADOT instance where later on will be pushed to the AWX X-Ray service and to the OTLP Tracetest endpoint.

But how does Tracetest fetch traces?

The ADOT collector is configured with the `awsxray` receiver and exporting the OpenTelemetry format directly intro Tracetest.

```yaml
receivers:
  awsxray:
    transport: udp

processors:
  batch:

exporters:
  awsxray:
    region: ${AWS_REGION}
  otlp/tt:
    endpoint: tracetest:21321
    tls:
      insecure: true

service:
  pipelines:
    traces/tt:
      receivers: [awsxray]
      processors: [batch]
      exporters: [otlp/tt]
    traces/xr:
      receivers: [awsxray]
      exporters: [awsxray]
```

How do traces reach AWS X-Ray?

The application code in the `src/index.js` file uses the native AWS SDK X-Ray library which sends telemetry data to the ADOT Collector to be processed and then sent to the configured AWS X-Ray SaaS and Tracetest.

> ## Run Both the Node.js app and Tracetest

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Run Both the Node.js App and Tracetest
```

> To start both the Node.js app and Tracetest, we will run this command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To start both the Node.js app and Tracetest, run this command:
```

```bash
docker-compose up
```

> This will start your Tracetest instance on `http://localhost:11633/`. Go ahead and open it up.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will start your Tracetest instance on `http://localhost:11633/`. Open the instance and start creating tests!
```

> Start creating tests! Make sure to use the `http://app:3000/` url in your test creation, because your Node.js app and Tracetest are in the same network.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure to use the `http://app:3000/` url in your test creation, because your Node.js app and Tracetest are in the same network.
```

## Learn More

> Feel free to check out our [examples in GitHub](https://github.com/kubeshop/tracetest/tree/main/examples), and join our [Discord Community](https://discord.gg/8MtcMrQNbX) for more info!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please visit our [examples in GitHub](https://github.com/kubeshop/tracetest/tree/main/examples), and join our [Discord Community](https://discord.gg/8MtcMrQNbX) for more info!
```
